The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Twins, by Elizabeth F. (Elizabeth
Frances) Guptill


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: The Twins
       And How They Entertained the New Minister


Author: Elizabeth F. (Elizabeth Frances) Guptill



Release Date: July 19, 2017  [eBook #55154]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TWINS***


E-text prepared by Emmy, MFR, Carol Brown, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net) from page images generously made
available by Internet Archive (https://archive.org)



Note: Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive. See
      https://archive.org/details/twinshowtheyente00gupt


Transcriber’s note:

      Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores,
      _like this_.





THE TWINS

and How They Entertained the New Minister

A Farce

by

ELIZABETH F. GUPTILL






Price 10 Cents

Tullar-Meredith Co.
New York                 Chicago


THE TWINS

and How They Entertained the New Minister

A Farce

by

ELIZABETH F. GUPTILL






Price 10 Cents

All Rights Reserved, Amateur Performance Permitted


[Illustration: Published By
Tullar-Meredith Co.]
265 West 36th Street, New York   14 W. Washington Street, Chicago

Copyright 1914, By Tullar-Meredith Co.
International Copyright Secured




The Twins and How They Entertained the New Minister




Characters

  Bobby and Betty, the twins. Rev. J. Jones, the minister.




Scene

A reception room. Enter Betty and the minister.

BETTY. (With a grown-up air.) There! Sit right down, and I’ll see
if Mamma’s in. No, not that one, that’s only for show. The leg’s
broken, and it aint got fixed yet. Take the Morris chair. That’s the
one sister’s beaux always sit in. There, now you’re all comfy. I’ll
tell Mamma you’re here, if she’s in.

REV. J. JONES. Tell her that I am making pastoral calls. I am—

BETTY. Yes, I know who you are. “I’m the new minister,” you was a
going to say, wasn’t you?

BOBBY. (Entering.) ’Twas my turn to answer the doorbell, Betty
Forrest. ’Taint fair! You just camp out in the hall to get ahead of
me! You got the book agent, and the Mission Lady, and now you’ve got
the minister. Course you’ll beat!

REV. J. J. Beat?

BETTY. You can tell him, Bobby, while I go ask Mamma if she’s in.
Sometimes she’s in when she isn’t, and sometimes she isn’t when she
is, and the only way to be sure you won’t get a whipping for telling
it the wrong way, is to go ask her. She’s in her room, I know, but
maybe she isn’t in. You tell him ’bout the new game, Bobby. (She runs
out.)

BOBBY. It’s what we call the Caller’s game. Betty made it up. Betty’s
awful smart to think of new things. You see, Thursday afternoon is
Christine’s day out. Say, aint it funny to call an afternoon a day?
And Mamma don’t like to answer the bell herself, ’cause then she
couldn’t be out if she didn’t want to see the one that rung it, so she
made me and Betty do it, ’n course we hated to be bothered—you know
callers are such a nuisance when you’re busy playing, and Betty
shirked and made me do it most all. So Daddy said if she didn’t do her
share, he’d bring home candy, and give it all to me, ’n then Betty she
made up this game. We’ve each got a little book, and we put down which
caller we answer the bell to and get a piece of candy for each caller,
and if there’s more candy than there is callers, we get two pieces for
each one, and now Betty likes to answer it, and she gets the most
candy every time.

BETTY. (Returning.) That’s ’cause I’m smartest, Daddy says. He says,
“Trust a woman to get the best of a man every time, be they ever so
young.”

REV. J. J. And what did Mamma say?

BETTY. She said, “Mercy me! The minister? I suppose I shall have to go
down, or your Father won’t like it.” What are ministers made for?

REV. J. J. I think I must go. Tell your mother I was sorry not to meet
her.

BETTY. But you got to see her. She’ll be down soon as she puts on her
hair and squeezes her feet into her new tango slippers.

BOBBY. Pa says it’s foolish to try to put a number two shoe on a
number four foot.

REV. J. J. (Rising.) I think I must go now.

BETTY. If you do, she’ll spank me good, for letting you, after she
said she was in. She told me to entertain you nicely till she came
down.

BOBBY. I’ll entertain him. Men like men. Do you play poker?

REV. J. J. Why no, do you?

BOBBY. No, I aint learned how yet, but I thought you might teach me.
This cunning little table is a card table, and the cards are in this
little drawer. (Takes them out.) And these pretty round things are the
chips.

BETTY. They look more like Tiddledy Winks. They use ’em ’stead of
money, ’cause Mamma won’t let ’em play for money. That’s gambling.

BOBBY. They pay the money down town, next day. I know, ’cause I was
with Daddy when he did, and he gave me a quarter not to tell Mamma.
’Sides, Mamma plays Bridge and that’s just as bad, Daddy says.

REV. J. J. Would they like you to tell me this?

BETTY. P’raps not, but you won’t tell, will you? It’s right to tell
the minister bad things, ’cause he’ll forgive you if you pay him
something, and you can do it over again. That’s the way Christine
does. She’s a Catholic. Are you?

REV. J. J. No indeed, my dear.

BOBBY. (Who has gone out, re-enters with a bottle and glass.) Have
some wine? Daddy always entertains this way. It’s a fine flavor. I
drank a bit from the bottom of a glass once, and ’twas awful good, but
Mamma was mad about it.

REV. J. J. Put it back, my boy. I never drink. Ministers never do.

BETTY. My, how thirsty you must get! What do you do when you’ve been
eating salt fish?

REV. J. J. I don’t care for salt fish.

BOBBY. Neither do we, but we eat a lot of it when we’re saving up for
a party.

BETTY. Can you dance the tango?

REV. J. J. No, I don’t dance.

BETTY. That’s too bad. Let me show you how. It’s just as easy! Come
on. (Tries to drag him up.)

REV. J. J. No, I don’t care to dance.

BETTY. I won’t call you awkward, really. You do it so, you know,
(illustrates) but dancing’s no fun alone, you know. You need a girl to
hug. If you learn with me you can do it with the big lady girls, the
ones that you like best, you know.

BOBBY. He don’t dance with ’em, he plays tag.

REV. J. J. Oh no, my boy.

BOBBY. Mamma said so. Daddy said that all the girls were chasing you,
and Mamma said she guessed that you could do your share of the
chasing, all right.

BETTY. I know what you like—fast horses, don’t you?

REV. J. J. Well, I have a horse, of course—

BETTY. Yes, a real spanker! And a narrow buggy to take the girls to
ride. Say, do you hold ’em in, when you go over the “thank you marms”
and take toll? Daddy said he bet you did. He always used to. He calls
it taking toll when he makes me pay him for candy with kisses. I
s’pose the girls would be afraid to say no to a minister, but
sometimes I say no to Daddy, just to tease him, and he calls me a
little flirt, and takes ’em just the same.

REV. J. J. Indeed. How old are you, little girl?

BETTY. I’m eight, ’n so’s Bobby. We’re twins, but I’m the smartest and
the prettiest. Daddy says so. Mamma’s great for bargains, when she’s
shopping, ’n when she bought me, Bobby was throwed in. She didn’t need
a boy, at all, but ’twas a bargain, you know. She bought a five dollar
waist yesterday for four dollars and ninety-five cents. Can you play
the piano?

REV. J. J. No, can you?

BETTY. I can play the scale, and “Tell Aunt Rhody,” and when I’m as
big as you, I shall play all the notes. You can’t do much, can you? Is
that why you’re a minister?

BOBBY. No, it’s ’cause it’s an easy way to earn your living. Daddy
said so. Just stand up in a pulpit and scold the people when they
dassn’t talk back, and have some men pass round plates to get money
for you. They don’t dare not to ’cause folks is looking. Once Daddy
put in a five dollar gold piece by mistake, and he sweared about it
when he got home.

BETTY. Yes, and last Sunday I put in my chewing gum by mistake and he
spanked me ’cause I sweared about it when I got home. He said “Darn!”
was naughty for a girl to say. Why is it?

REV. J. J. Because—

BETTY. Oh, I didn’t ’spect you to tell me. I don’t like to be preached
at. Have you got any s’criptions with you?

REV. J. J. Prescriptions? I’m not a druggist, nor a physician.

BOBBY. Sub ones, she means. Mamma don’t like ’em. She hates begging
ministers. She always signs, you know, ’cause she must, but she can’t
afford to give away a whole dollar, or even half a one, ’cause her
clothes are awful ’spensive, and the dressmaker bothers her awfully
with bills. Oh, wouldn’t you like a cigar? (Takes a cigar case from a
stand and passes it.)

REV. J. J. No indeed. I never smoke, and I hope you never will.

BOBBY. Oh yes I will. It’s lots nicer than chewing. Just you try. Or
are you ’fraid it will make you sick? It did me, when I tried it, but
I’m going to try a cigarette next time. Taint so strong. P’raps you
better.

BETTY. You better not. Maybe your Mamma wouldn’t like it. Mamma
spanked Bobby.

REV. J. J. My dear boy, I sincerely hope—

BOBBY. Mamma’s coming.

BETTY. We’ve entertained you good, haven’t we? We haven’t told
anything we ought to not, have we? ’Cause if we have, we’ll get
spanked and sent to bed, when you’re gone.

BOBBY. If we have, don’t you tell. Be a good sport, and don’t tattle.
Here comes Mamma.

BETTY. And she’s got her new dress on. We’ve entertained him, Mamma!

(Minister rises, as lady enters room, hand outstretched.)


CURTAIN


[Illustration]




-------------------------------------------------------------------
  New York               TULLAR-MEREDITH CO.              Chicago


  Our Five Money Getters


  THE RAG SOCIABLE

  A quaint old fashioned entertainment which is always sure to please.

  Libretto by Edith S. Tillotsen         Music by Various Composers

[Illustration]

The dialog is very spicy and interesting, and humor and pathos are
beautifully blended in the various musical selections. The characters
include Mrs. Winters and her two daughters Betsy and Maria, Miss
Jemima Rush, Mrs. Bassett, Mrs. Collins, Mrs. Salina Grey, the Allen
twins (elderly), Mrs. Martha Ann Hall, Miss Eliza Hall, Mrs. Jane
Tompkins, Jane Tompkins and Amanda Tompkins. The list of characters
may be extended ad. lib. to meet local conditions.

A fine entertainment for a class of women or girls, Ladies’ Aid,
Christian Endeavor and Epworth League Societies, etc. _Price 25 cents
per copy._


  THE OLD DISTRICT SCHOOL

  A Farce In Two Acts (New Version)

  Book by Wm. Danforth                 Music arr. by Geo. F. Rosche

  [Illustration]

This is a burlesque on the district school of 100 years ago. Ezekiel
Simpkins, the teacher, is the central character. His costume is a
tight Prince Albert coat, with brass buttons, or a worn and faded
“claw-hammer” coat; colored vest, cut low; stock collar, with large
black tie; trousers, “high-water,” with a patch of other color on one
knee; well-worn shoes. Bald gray wig and “side” whiskers. The costumes
of the pupils are in keeping with those of the teacher.

The characters all read their lines from the book, so that there is
very little to be memorized and for this reason this work can be
prepared in a very short time. _Price, postpaid, 50 cents per copy._


  THE VISION OF HENSEL

  An Evening with the old Songs

  The Old Songs of Childhood, Youth, Love, War and Home

  Libretto by Ellan N. Wood

  [Illustration]

There is no friend like an old friend and after all there are no songs
we love quite so much as the old ones. This Cantata furnishes a
beautiful medium for the introduction of the old songs which we all
know and love. There is just enough libretto to the work to form a
continuous chain of thought throughout, and we know of no Cantata that
will afford such a pleasing entertainment at such a small expenditure
of labor. The book is well worth its price if only to secure this fine
collection of old home songs. Full of sentiment, humor and pathos and
decidedly new and fresh in construction. _Price, 30 cts. per copy,
postpaid; $3.00 per doz., not prepaid; add 3 cts. per copy for
postage._


  THE CHAPERON

  A humorous Operetta in Three Acts

  Libretto by Wm. Danforth                  Music by Geo. F. Rosche

  [Illustration]

“The Chaperon” is a humorous operetta designed for church choir and
young people’s societies. It will be found available in all
communities in which seven young men and seven young ladies who sing,
can be found. The music is bright, tuneful, easy to learn and easy to
remember. The dialogue is very witty, clean, wholesome and
entertaining. _Price, postpaid, 60 cents per copy._


  THE SPINSTERS’ CLUB

  A Humorous Operetta in Two Acts

  Libretto by Harriet D. Castle             Music by Geo. F. Rosche

  [Illustration]

“The Spinsters’ Club” is a humorous operetta designed for church
choirs and young people’s societies. It will be found available in all
communities in which a church choir is found. The music is bright,
tuneful, and yet easy to learn and memorize. The dialogue is witty,
pleasing and entertaining. _Price, postpaid, 60 cents per copy._


A returnable sample copy of any of the above mailed on receipt of 3
cents for postage; to be returned postpaid or paid for in ten days.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
  _New York              TULLAR-MEREDITH CO.             Chicago_




  A New Tickler for your Funny Bone


  “CUPID AND THE CHORISTER”

  —or—

  “Herr Lover’s Dilemma”

  _A Musical Entertainment In One Act_

  Libretto by H. MacDONALD BARR              Music by CARL F. PRICE

The most interesting, mirth-provoking entertainment which we have been
privileged to see or hear in recent years.

It goes right to your funny bone with a new kind of tickle.

It provides a whole evening of the finest fun without for an instant
suggesting the vulgar or commonplace. There is a laugh in every line
of the libretto and a lilt to every brace of music which makes it
irresistible. The spell cannot be broken by the fall of the curtain
for the oft repeated strains of “Love is the way to spell Living” are
sure to echo and re-echo long after the entertainment is over.

This entertainment is easily within the ability of the ordinary church
choir with augmented chorus. Special costumes are needed by only three
or four characters, the chorus being in ordinary dress. No elaborate
stage setting is necessary, a neat platform with an adjoining room, or
with a door, being the only requisites for its presentation. A piano
should be on the platform.


  CAST

  Professor Herr Lover, A little Anxious      _Tenor_
  Xerxes Strong, A little Weak                 _Bass_
  F. Sharp, A little Blunt                 _Baritone_
  Fillup Pipes, A little Big               _Baritone_
  A. Dagio, A little Slow                      _Bass_
  Prophundo Basso, A little Deep               _Bass_
  Ledgoline Topsee, A little High           _Soprano_
  Gracie Note, A little Light               _Soprano_
  Addaline Crescendo, A little Swell           _Alto_
  Miss Keys, A little Inattentive           _Pianist_
  Jim, The Janitor, A little Noisy
  CHORUS


THE STORY

Professor Herr Lover has written a cantata, the rehearsal of which he
is to conduct. He has proposed marriage to the leading soprano,
Ledgoline Topsee, but she is afraid he lacks the quality of patience,
and plans, with the aid of her friends who compose the cast, to
utilize the rehearsal to test him in that respect. After tolerating a
series of aggravating interruptions and delays on the part of the
singers, he at last gives away to a burst of angry passion, only to
discover what he has lost by so doing. By a clever surrender, however,
he turns defeat into victory, and the affair ends happily.

This play given by your _Church Choir_, _Young People’s Society_ or
_Ladies’ Aid_ will prove a financial success beyond your fondest
dream. _Someone_ will give this in your vicinity. Why not be the first
and reap the benefit for _your_ church or Society?

The price is 75 cents per copy with a small license fee for privilege
of public performance for profit, but we have a special proposition to
offer for its first appearance in each city or town. If interested,
write for particulars with prospectus.


  _Price 75 cents per Copy._           _Performing Rights Reserved_




  _New York               TULLAR-MEREDITH CO.              Chicago_




  NEW PLAYS

  By Elizabeth F. Guptill

  [Illustration]

The School at Mud Hollow. A burlesque in two parts. 8 Males and 19
Females. Time about 2 hours. Price 35 cents.

PART I. In which is portrayed the difficulties encountered by Miss
Arabella Pinkham, who has come to “Mud Hollow” to assume the
responsible duties of “Teacher” in the school. In selecting “Mud
Hollow” she seeks a change from the city life she is accustomed to,
and finds plenty of it in the manners, customs and dialect of the
pupils. From start to finish there is nothing but fun.

PART II. Which represents the last day at the school, when the proud
parents are present to listen to the final examination of the class by
the Supervisor and enjoy the program which is rendered by the pupils.
Part II. offers an opportunity for about 60 minutes of the finest fun
possible.

“The School at Mud Hollow” may be given in one evening, but for those
who would prefer to make two evenings of it, or to give only one part,
offer the same work announced below under the title of “_The New
Teacher at Mud Hollow School_” and “_The Last Day at Mud Hollow
School_” either of which can be given as a complete entertainment
without regard to the other one.

The New Teacher at Mud Hollow School. Being Part I. of THE SCHOOL AT
MUD HOLLOW. 6 Males and 14 Females. Time about 1 hour. Price 25 cents.

The Last Day at Mud Hollow School. Being Part II. of THE SCHOOL AT MUD
HOLLOW. 8 Males and 19 Females. Time about 1 hour. Price 25 cents.


Santa’s Rescue

[Illustration]

Two mysterious pieces of paper fall into the hands of the children,
one being found by the BOYS and one by the GIRLS. The meaning of the
inscription on each remains a mystery until it is discerned that by
placing the papers together they have the message that the “Old Witch”
of the North has captured “Santa” and holds him in an ice prison at
the North Pole. Of course there could be no “Merry Christmas” without
their “patron saint”, so guided by the “Fairy Godmother” they start
for the North Pole to rescue him. The “Old Witch” endeavors to block
the rescuers’ way by the assistance of “Old Zero” and the “Snow
Fairies” but when they learn that the snow drifts they are piling up
are to aid in keeping “Santa” from his usual Christmas activities they
get the “Sunbeam Fairies” to come to their aid and melt the snow,
while they bind with a frozen cord the “Old Witch,” who is found
indulging in a nap which she takes only once every hundred years. With
the “Old Witch” powerless and in their control the Rescue of Santa is
an easy matter.

Tho’ belated somewhat by his enforced stay at the North Pole, the
children are glad to become his “aides” in spreading a “Merry
Christmas” through all the world. This is a very clever plot, well
worked out, and will make a decided hit for the Christmas season. 4
Boys and 5 Girls with any number of Fairies. Time about 1 hour. Price
25 cents.


FARCES

Taking the Census. Mr. Cole, the Census Taker, has a funny
experience in an attempt to gather the facts required by the
government from Mrs. Almira Johnson, a “cullud lady,” and her young
son Alexander. Three characters only. Time about 10 minutes. Price 10
cents.

[Illustration]

Answering the Phone. Mrs. Courtney and her daughter have a most
trying experience with Nora Flanagan, the new “hired girl,” who in
their absence attempts to carry out the instructions given with
special reference to “answering the phone.” The final situation in
which Nora makes a date with Miss Courtney’s “intended” is ridiculous
in the extreme. 3 females. Time about 15 minutes. Price 10 cents.

The Twins and How They Entertained the New Minister. They have
a delightful time telling family secrets to the “New Minister,” who
has called for the first time. They explain the necessity of seeing
their mother to find out from her if she is “In,” for so often she is
“Out” when she is “In” and “In” when she is “Out.” 2 Males and 1
Female. Time about 15 minutes. Price 10 cents.


NO ENTERTAINMENTS SENT “ON EXAMINATION”




      *      *      *      *      *      *




Transcriber’s note:

Dialect, obsolete and alternative spellings were left unchanged.

Missing end punctuation was added.

Spelling corrections:

  ‘his’ to ‘this’ …Daddy always entertains this way…

  ‘raises’ to ‘rises’ …(Minister rises, as lady enters room,…



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TWINS***


******* This file should be named 55154-0.txt or 55154-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/5/1/5/55154


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

